By working hard you get good food to eat, capability to digest it, a beautiful wife and happiness with her, and the wealth that can be utilized for good causes.

A person experiences heavenly joy whose son is obedient, wife is faithful, and who himself is satisfied with whatever he has (non envying nature).

A true son is obedient to his father, a true father takes care of his son, and honesty is the quality of a true friend.

Acharya Chanakya suggests that a person must stay away from the people who talk flattery in front of you, but try to harm at your back. Such friendship is like a vial of poison with milk on its top. Simply stay away from such people!

A friend who is not good shall not be trusted, nor trust a friend who has not proven bad. They may reveal your secrets to others when not in good terms with you.  (Chanakya neeti also advises you not to act foolish under peer pressure.)

Don’t speak anything  about your plans as others will try to hinder your regime. The simplest suggestion is that you continue with the task without grabbing much attention.

Stupidity is woe and the days of youth are very woeful. Anyhow, living on the mercy of others is woe extreme.

Every hill does not hides gems in it.
Every elephant does not possess mani (Gajamukta).
Every place is not a home of some noble person.
Every forest is not filled with sandalwood.
* The moral is that a man must act as per the situation instead of continuing with the false assumptions. Also, don’t trust everyone.

A wise person grooms his child carefully because only an educated person with high morale is given true respect in society.

* Throughout Chanakya Neeti you will see that Kautilya has emphasized a lot over practical education.

The parents who do not care for the education of their children are their worst enemies. On growing up such children feel isolated from the society, just like a crane in a flock of swans.

Chanakya advises not to overindulge with your child, pupil and students. It will spoil them.

Do not allow a single day of your life to pass away without learning something good and useful.

The destruction is inevitable for:

A tree on the bank of a river
A woman in house of a stranger
A king with stupid/bad counselors.
The power:
Of a scholar lies in his knowledge
Of a king lies in his army
Of a trader lies in his money
Of a servant is in his service.
* Chanakya neeti tells you to understand your role and act accordingly.

As people leave a weak king, a prostitute deserts improvised customer, and birds leave a withered tree. In the same manner the guests must leave the house of host after having food.

One who befriends a person of bad character or lives in the company of an evil fellow; undergoes a quick destruction.

The friendship between people of equal status is considered as the best, serving under a king is one of the best employment a person can get, trading is the best occupation, and it is best for a lady to stay in the safety of the home. (* discretion is advised)